+++
title   = "Developers Goodies - The Cryptic Code"
date    = 2016-05-31
type    = "post"
draft   = true
+++

Every programmer dreams of greenfield projects. However, live is different. Especially if you are inclined to code in Java like myself. This language is around for a while, and a lot of code has been written in Java. So from time to time you are called in to extend code written by other developers.

I was summoned to migrate an existing application to a new platform. The code has been matured for a long time, so to say, and many coders had made their impression. That includes premium hackers and brilliant software engineers. Unluckily most times the lower-priced developers won the contracts. Lucky me, as now I can present some code I came across so many times I stopped counting.

```java
public ArrayList<CrypticDO> fetchReadReceiptForNo(String pnr, boolean includingUnread)
  throws RemoteException, CrypticBackendException
{
  if (LOG.isTraceEnabled()) {
    LOG.trace("Begin: CrypticWebBackendImpl.fetchReadReceiptForNo");
  }
  if (true) {
    throw this.crypticBackendExceptionFactory
              .createNotImplementedException("fetchReadReceiptForNo not implemented");
  }
  if (LOG.isTraceEnabled()) {
    LOG.trace("End: CrypticWebBackendImpl.fetchReadReceiptForNo");
  }
  return null;
}
```

May-be I should mention we are talking about an application using the Spring framework. And the code is used by other systems and real users for a couple of years. I replaced a very cryptic shortcut in the sample code with the word _"cryptic"_.

# What can be improved in this code?

Actually, the simplest solution would be to delete it. The code exists for years and just produces an error, so we can reckon it is not called by anyone. Just assume we cannot do so, may-be because the API needs to be backward compatible. Furthermore suppose that the code really contains business logic to be called.

Now, how to start?

## a) Use interfaces, not implementations!

Have a closer look at the method signature:

```java
public ArrayList<CrypticDO> fetchReadReceiptForNo(...)
```

Why an `ArrayList`? For what reason does a caller need to know which implementation is used internally? And what needs to be coded if we change the internal implementation, e.g. to a `LinkedList`?

If the order does matter, then the signature should be:

```java
public List<CrypticDO> fetchReadReceiptForNo(...)
```

If the order does not matter, then the signature should be changed so that we could use a `Set` or a `List` internally:

```java
public Collection<CrypticDO> fetchReadReceiptForNo(...)
```

If I am not sure if the order is important or not, or if I need to operate on the list, then I should use an explicit transfer object:

```java
public CrypticObjects fetchReadReceiptForNo(...)
```

## b) Why guard with `LOG.isDebugEnabled()`?

This code is a wonderful example for Copy & Paste w/o brains. Dear copy coder, any idea how the developer of the logging framework has implemented the `trace` call?

```java
  if (LOG.isTraceEnabled()) {
    LOG.trace("Begin: CrypticWebBackendImpl.fetchReadReceiptForNo");
  }
```

Take a framework of your choice, the lines are very likely to have a resemblance with the following simplified fragment:

```java
public void trace(final String message) {
  if (isTraceEnabled()) {
    output.append(message);
  }
}
```

So when to actually use `isTraceEnabled()` or `isDebugEnabled()`? If and only if I want to postpone the creation of the error message itself:

```java
if (LOG.isTraceEnabled()) {
  LOG.trace("Begin: " + StackUtils.getCallingClass() + "." + StackUtils.getCallingMethod());
}
```

Without a guarding `isTraceEnabled()` the string will be constructed before I know if it will be used or appended to the output within the called code of `trace()`. That means that the potentially time consuming queries on the `StackTrace` are executed, if I need it or not.

If you just want to avoid the string concatenation if there are multiple parameters to the log message, then you can call `String.format()` to the rescue:

```java
  private static final String CLASS_NAME = "CrypticWebBackendImpl";

  ...

  {
    String methodName = "fetchReadReceiptForNo";
    LOG.trace(String.format("Begin: %1s.%2s", CLASS_NAME, methodName));
  }
```

## Lagere cross-cutting concerns einfach aus! 

An dem Code ist natürlich besonders interessant, dass er sehr resistent gegen Refactoring ist. Klassennamen und Methodennamen werden als Zeichenketten in jeder Methode abgelegt. Was passiert wohl mit den Ausgaben, wenn sich der Name einer Methode ändert?

Im vorliegenden Beispiel gibt es rund 60 solcher Klassen mit durchschnittlich 10 Methoden.

Wie lange haben die Entwickler wohl daran gesessen, nur den Code zum Loggen hinzuzufügen? Jetzt hoffen wir einfach mal, dass die Klasse nicht nur erzeugt worden ist, um die Log-Ausgabe zu ermöglichen. Wobei der reale Code mich da eher zweifeln lässt. Wenn ich so oft fast den gleichen Code schreiben muss, ist es dann nicht an der Zeit, darüber nachzudenken, wie das auch einfacher geht?

In diesem Fall hätte das oberflächliche Lesen der Dokumentation zu Spring schon weiter geholfen. Selbst in älteren Versionen hätte folgende Konfiguration geholfen:

```xml
<bean id="customizableTraceInterceptor" class="org.springframework.aop.interceptor.CustomizableTraceInterceptor">
  <property name="enterMessage" value="Begin: $[targetClassShortName].$[methodName]"/>
  <property name="exitMessage" value="End: $[targetClassShortName].$[methodName]"/>
</bean>

<aop:config>
  <aop:advisor advice-ref="customizableTraceInterceptor"
               pointcut="execution(public * com.kryptisch.service.*(..))"/>
</aop:config>
```

Statt `CustomizableTraceInterceptor` lässt sich natürlich auch der `SimpleTraceInterceptor` verwenden. Ab Spring 2.5 lässt sich auch prima mit `@Aspect` eine eigene Implementierung dagegen setzen. Dieser könnte vereinfacht wie folgt aussehen:

```java
@Aspect
public class LogServiceCalls
{
  @Around( "execution(* com.xyz.service.*.*(..))" )
  public Object log(ProceedingJoinPoint join) throws Throwable {
    final Signature signature = join.getSignature();
    final String description = signature.getDeclaringTypeName() + "." + signature.getName();

    final Logger log = ...;

    log.trace(String.format("Begin: %1s, description));
    Object retVal = join.proceed();
    log.trace(String.format("End: %1s, description));

    return retVal;
  }
```

Was bleibt noch vom Code, wenn wir diese Vorschläge umsetzen?

```java
public List<KryptischesDO> holeLesebestaetigungenZuNr(String vsnr, boolean inklusiveUngelesene)
  throws RemoteException, KryptischesBackendException
{
  if (true) {
    throw this.kryptischesBackendExceptionFactory
              .createNotImplementedException("holeLesebestaetigungenZuNr not implemented");
  }
  return null;
}
```

## Was wahr ist, wird auch wahr bleiben. ##

Warum hat der Entwickler ursprünglich `if (true) { ... }` eingebaut? Was wahr ist, wird immer wahr bleiben. Ganz einfach: Ansonsten hätte sich der Compiler beschwert, dass der Code nach dem Schmeißen der Ausnahme nie erreicht wird. Der Entwickler hätte also den Code umschreiben müssen und hätte dabei den Platzhalter-Code löschen müssen:

```java
public List<KryptischesDO> holeLesebestaetigungenZuNr(String vsnr, boolean inklusiveUngelesene)
  throws RemoteException, KryptischesBackendException
{
  LOG.trace("Begin: KryptischesWebBackendImpl.holeLesebestaetigungenZuNr");

  throw this.kryptischesBackendExceptionFactory
            .createNotImplementedException("holeLesebestaetigungenZuNr not implemented");
}
```

Immerhin besser lesbarer als die ursprüngliche Version, und er hätte gleich den Nachteil seines Logging-Ansatzes gesehen: Was wird eigentlich ausgegeben, wenn die eigentliche Geschäftsmethode einen Fehler wirft? Genau, nichts.

Überlassen wir das Loggen also dem Aspekt und unternehmen noch den letzten Schritt und vereinfachen den Code weiter. Somit bleibt nur noch der Aufruf der eigentlichen Geschäftslogik über:

```java
public List<KryptischesDO> holeLesebestaetigungenZuNr(String vsnr, boolean inklusiveUngelesene)
  throws RemoteException, KryptischesBackendException
{
  throw this.kryptischesBackendExceptionFactory
            .createNotImplementedException("holeLesebestaetigungenZuNr not implemented");
}
```

Den obigen Aspekt müssten wir nur um ein paar Zeilen erweitern:

```java
@Aspect
public class LogServiceCalls
{
  ...

  @AfterThrowing( "execution(* com.xyz.service.*.*(..))" )
  public void failure(...) {
    // ...
  }
```

# What else?

How would you code this function if you are allowed to change the interface? How would you name the parameters? I personally encourage never to abbreviate anything. What on earth is a *pnr*? Is it a product number, a purchase order number, a personal note receipt? Modern IDEs feature code completion, everyone is allowed to use it, and suddenly the code is more readable.

I guess I have been rambling too much. Do you agree? Who is convinced this can be done better? And who actually is required to maintain this type of code as well?
